All right, going with
the chapter one, let me take
you directly on the screen.
And first of all, let's go
ahead and clean everything up.
We don't want any files opened
up or anything like that.
So we'll start with the 07.
And, I can now go
ahead and delete this.
We don't need this.
I just shadcn this file
with you already.
Let's create a new folder.
Let's call this one as 07.
And that will be comprehensions.
There we go.
Now, in this, let's go ahead
and start with the very first one,
which is the list comprehension.
So what is this list comprehension?
How does it work?
So the list comprehension, let's
go ahead and write that,
because that would be easier for me.
There we go.
First of all, let's
understand the syntax.
That's the most important part.
So the syntax looks
something like this.
We have the square brackets.
So we go ahead and put
up the square brackets.
Then you simply go ahead
and write your expression here,
whatever you want to do.
I'll show you what expression
and all of this means.
And then you simply go
ahead and put a loop.
Yes, I know I told you
that we will be using.
We'll not be using the loop.
We can do it.
But actually the loop is being used.
Just look at the syntax.
You will get this.
So for item in items, and I hope you
got the syntax, items is an array.
Item is an individual item of that.
Rather, it would be correct
to write it as iterable.
Iterable.
So that I can iterate over it.
And then you simply
write if condition.
And you might be thinking, all
right, all right, I was there
with you, but now I'm not with you.
What is all of this?
That's why I say sometimes
the practicals are much more easier.
So expression for item in iteratable.
Iterable.
If condition.
I know, I know, you lost me
there, but let me walk you
through with an example.
The practical examples
are much easier.
Call this one as 01 and call
this one as list, compre py.
All right, let's go with this.
Let's just say we have a menu.
Let's go with the real example.
We have a menu, all right?
This is your menu, which
is a list in itself.
And if you remember, list actually
can be written in just one line.
Or you can hit an enter and can
write a list like this.
This is much easier
to read, actually.
So we just have some of the masala
chai, and then separated
by comma, we can have another chai
this one is iced lemon, T.
Then we have another one which is
green T or chai,
whichever you want to have.
Another one we have is going
to be iced peach T.
And we have one last one which is
maybe ginger T or ginger chai,
whichever you want to call it.
That's totally okay.
So this is our menu.
This is our list.
Now, I want to bring all
the iced T out of it.
So how can I do this?
Pretty easy way.
You can loop through the values
and look for the character
that it should have iced,
in that particular T.
And then I'll filter them out.
But the easiest way is
with the comprehension.
Now let's go through with the syntax.
So we have the square brackets.
All right, I understand
square brackets.
That's easy for me.
Now then I go ahead and say that,
hey, this is expression for items.
So what is this expression?
Expression means
it's not going to be.
It's going to be evaluated in
a moment, but it will get the value.
So I'll just call this as, tea.
All right, tea for a moment.
We can call this simply a variable.
Okay, Acceptable.
Let's go ahead and call this
one as for tea in menu.
This is also acceptable that.
All right, you are using a loop
in this.
The menu is a trable,
which is a, list in itself.
The tea is each individual item.
All right, I got this part as well.
And then we simply go ahead and use
condition, Remember if condition.
So we'll always have
a if condition in this.
No exception if.
And I can go ahead and say iced int.
What did I just did here?
Remember, each of this is a string.
And I can check for the characters
that, hey, I want iced inside tea.
So this can be done because
it's a, whole iterable.
Strings are also iterable.
I can go ahead and look.
I want this to be a part of this tea.
So this whole item should
have iced somewhere in it.
So first.
Nope, the second one.
Surely it has the third one.
Nope, the fourth one will have it,
and the fifth one will not have it.
So each there should be
somewhere iced word into it,
either here or here or here.
So once we find it,
we actually filter that.
So we are looping through it.
We are checking for a condition.
And finally we are actually
collecting this, all of this
inside an expression, which is teas.
And this whole thing will be
collected inside the iced tea.
And I'm pretty sure
you're looking forward.
I want to see this.
I want to see the print
statement of this.
And you're Absolutely correct.
I can just go ahead and say print.
We'll change some of the variables
and do investigative study as well.
I'll just say iced tea and let's
go ahead and print this.
What do we get in return?
So I'll just go ahead and close this.
Open up an integrated terminal
just here, and with the Python
3, I want to run single file.
There we go.
Notice here we have iced
T, lemon T, iced peach T,
and lemon T all up here.
Okay, you might be having.
I do have some questions.
What is this?
T.
Can I call this one as
my underscore tea?
You will immediately
notice an error here.
The notice here, the error
says my T is not defined.
How can you say it is not defined?
Because this variable
actually comes from there.
Each individual item of the tea is
actually called this one here.
This is the syntax part.
So if I go ahead and call this as
myt, I have to call my variable
as myt, then it's all happy.
All right, so this part is all clear.
Now, this part shouldn't make
much of the trouble for you.
This is just any table.
In this case, since we call it
as list comprehension,
it expects that you will provide
a list, or in short array,
then comes up the condition part.
So this condition could be iced
here, but this could also be that.
Hey, if, maybe you want to check
for something different.
Notice here.
This one is also now getting
in trouble because we are
calling everything as myt, so you
should call this as well.
So right now we are checking
for iced in my tea, but I
can also go ahead and check if
my tea is or Mighty dot.
I can use the length operator,
or I can simply go
ahead and say, the length.
Not like that.
If the length of my tea is,
probably greater than, 10,
again, we can just calculate that.
But I want to see the result
of this as well.
So notice here, if I go ahead
for that, all of them are actually
bigger than 10, so that's great.
So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.
So we should actually try for 12.
Maybe we can get some different
result just to show you.
So there we go.
Now we have iced T and lemon T.
Because these are three
characters and they are
definitely more than 12.
So we only get the result
if we go ahead and change this sign.
They should be less than 12.
So what we're going to get.
And, I hope you get the power
of it, all right?
It's a pretty fun way
of writing the code, and it's
actually pretty understandable.
Now let's take this one here
or I'll actually go back
to the previous example.
That was pretty much more fun.
So this one.
Yeah, this one was
actually much more fun.
Let's go ahead and copy this
and compare with
the example that we have here.
So notice here, this one says
expression for item in iterable.
Now I hope this is much easier.
So this expression is
actually my tea here.
And then we have this
for matching up.
So item.
This is exactly the item we have
in iterable.
This menu is our iterable.
And the if condition.
The.
The whole condition part is up here.
So I can just go ahead
and wrap this up.
So this is whole condition part.
So.
Told you.
It looks weird at first, but once
you practice this a little bit more,
this will actually become
easier and you will see.
Yeah, this is actually much
fun way of writing Python
and easier as well.
Again, practice is the key,
but I hope I have done a good job
in making sure that you
understand each and every line
of list comprehensions.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.